## Show Not Tell

~~One of~~ The ***hardest*** things I have experienced in my career is the immense difficulty in creating change in an organisation. Once you move out of a startup setting with a handful of generally likeminded individuals creating change is difficult. This is natural, people as individuals tend to dislike significant impulse. You scale this up to tens, hundreds or even thousandss of individuals, each with there own personal incentives, percieved areas of expertise, ways of doing things, cultural norms etc. and the act of instigating change becomes gargantuan. I have come to realise (partly through my own experience, partly through discussion with those who have spent far more time at this thing) that there is really only two way of driving change in a large organisation
 
 1. ***The all powerful dictator model***: The dictator model is this mythical position where someone has final word control on vast swathes of a project/organisation. In this (almost always hypothetical) setup instigating change is as simple as issuing the orders, having the resources and getting to work. This model suffers from two major flaws. Firstly it almost never exists; everyone has a boss and even CEO's have shareholder or funders they need to satisfy.  <!-- The second is, even if you do find yourself in such an illustrious position, you better hope you are a benevelant dictator-->
 
 2. ***Show not tell:*** It is what it says on the tin, you have to **show** that you can do something. Build it. Test it. Try it. Improve it. Show what it looks like. Show the effects. Show the speed. Show the benefits. This is not 'tell', this is not 'hypothesise' or 'suggest a possible way of doing something' or 'produce a steering committee to write a report about the potential value of doing X over the next 5 years' or employ a consultancy to investigate the feasibality of doing 'X'. **Do it**. 
 
 You will notice the second option has the advantage of actually occuring in the real world. You will also notice a couple of significant problems with it. This model is clearly restricted in it s application. A civial engineer is probably not going to be able to 'show not tell' a new bridge. However the awesome thing about the open source revolution, low-cost on demand cloud computing and the generally low-cost transformation of data is that pilot projects, proofs of concept, or test structure can be designed, built and trialled relatively quickly and cheaply. We are in a position to show not tell!
 
 How close this showing takes can get to ridiculous levels. I have been in a position where  can get to 
 
